- [Instructor] In the workplace, a disorganized presentation
with unclear messaging can cause confusion.
Creating presentations that are easily understood
by your stakeholders is imperative
to communicate your message.
In this lesson,
I'll show you how to build a presentation in PowerPoint
and use formatting tools and design elements
to help make your key data points clear.
First, open PowerPoint.
Download the sample presentation
in your exercise files to follow along.
It's called Customer Event Example Draft.
In this example,
I'm building a presentation for a customer event.
The first thing I want to do
is select a theme for my presentation,
so I'll select Design at the top ribbon.
Here, I'm given options for various themes.
I can open the dropdown menu to see more options.
I'm going to select this one called Office Theme
and you can see that the theme applies
to all the slides in my presentation.
If I hover to the right of a theme options,
I see different variants offered for the current theme.
Selecting the dropdown menu allows you to see more options.
I'll select variant four.
In Design, you can also insert a background image.
I'll select the background dropdown menu
where I can see the options for solid fill or picture.
I'll select solid fill and choose a color.
I can also apply the current slide background
to all slides at once.
I want all my slides to have the same look,
so I'm going to select Apply To All.
I can also use the Designer indicated by the paint brush.
The Designer suggests professional designs
and eye catching visuals
to support the presentation content.
I can use this by adding new texts
or pictures to a new slide
and review layouts suggested by Designer.
Now that all my slides have the same format,
I'm going to organize them into sections.
To add sections to the presentation,
I'll select View from the top ribbon,
then select Slides Order.
Next, I'll select the first slide
in the new section that I want to create.
I'll right-click it and in the dropdown menu,
choose Add Section.
I'll give this section a name, Introduction,
and press Enter.
If I want to rename or remove a section,
I'll right-click the section name
and choose Rename or Remove from the dropdown menu.
I can also drag slides
to rearrange the order of the presentation.
Once done, I can return to the original view
by selecting Normal in the menu below the top ribbon.
Slide numbers can help keep
the presentation order organized.
To add slide numbers to your presentation,
go to the top ribbon and select Insert, then Footer.
In the dropdown menu, select the slide number.
A menu will appear on the right side of the screen.
Here I can choose if the title slide should
or shouldn't have a slide number.
I'll select don't show on the title slide,
then select Apply All and close the menu.
Check out the new slide numbers
in the bottom right corner of each slide
after the title slide.
Formatting PowerPoint presentations
will keep your PowerPoint organized and easy to understand.
Give it a try and see how these tools
can help your presentation shine.